>> Scott Moss: We're just gonna build
on top of that and to add more or
our first attempt at
server-side data fetching.
So with React 18 and
now 19 and Next.js 13, now 14,
we have the ability to do
asynchronous server components,
which allows us to access
database resources,
back-end resources,
directly inside of a component.
So we can do initial renders for
components completely server-side without
having to wait for
the client to bootstrap, load up.
Download JavaScript, do all that stuff,
and then make a query probably inside
a use effect or something,
which is what you would normally do.
So that's not news and
it's not really advanced.
I talked about that in the intro course,
but we're gonna talk about more advanced
patterns specifically around caching and
things like that, and how all that works.
So server-side, data fetching,
the best way I can describe it,
I've been talking about it for a little
bit now but it's really like Next.js.
It's creating a route for you for every
function that you make, and then you just
call the function, and you don't have
to worry about managing the route.
So that's the best way I can describe it,
and in that function,
you can do anything that you
could do in a Route Handler.
So the runtime is gonna be whatever
runtime that your environment supports.
If you deployed Vercel or something, you
could pick a runtime whether it's edge or
just node.
So it's really just gonna be
a Route Handler, but a component.
>> Scott Moss: Basically,
some of the things here that you have to
think about though, when you're doing
these server-side calls are gonna be
optimizations around redundant things.
Or for instance, if you are loading
up slots like we are and
each one of those slots needs to make
sure that the user is signed in.
So you need to make a call to the database
to check to see if the user is signed in,
in our case, three times.
That'd be very wasteful
to have to do that, so
you probably wanna minimalize that or
cache that in some way.
So these are some of the type
of things that you wanna think
about when you make these calls, so
it's really like you have to plan it
out [LAUGH] cuz it's not obvious.
So mostly, here, I'm just talking
about a lot of that stuff, memoizing,
things like that, but it's so much easier
if I just walk you through and show you.
But some of the things here,
in addition to doing memoization of
some of the fetch requests,
are gonna be persistent caching.
So persistent caching is,
the way I can describe that is,
it's even though we go in between routes,
whereas a memoization is a per request,
a persistent cache would be it's
always gonna be there until you do
a hard refresh basically, right?
So we're gonna talk about
how do we activate that?
How do we turn that off?
How do we opt into it?
Different things like that.
The other cool thing is gonna
be streaming and suspense.
Again, this is not new to React or
Next.js, but we're gonna talk about how to
actually use that in a way where
it's practical, it's nice.
It's not something that's hypothetical,
but it's something that's actually useful.
I'll talk to you about how I do it.
So for this one, we are going to make
a couple server-side functions here.
So one, we wanna lock down our application
cuz now since we created auth,
we don't want people to be able to access
pages unless they're authenticated.
So we're gonna make a helper function that
gets the current user based off the token,
so we'll do that.
And then we're gonna go make our functions
that get the data for those route slots.
We have those three route slots, right?
We have one that shows
the attendees count, so
we can make a function that
gets the attendees' count.
We have one that's the homepage this one,
which one?
Yeah, this one actually
gets the attendees counts.
We have the one that gets the events.
So all the events, so
we gotta make that, and
then we have one that gets all the RSVP,
so we have to make that one as well.
So we're gonna make all of those and
then we're going to put them
in their appropriate slots.
We'll explore all the different
caching scenarios and gotchas and
then we'll figure out how we might
cache those, so let's do that.
So first things first is let's go make
our function that we're gonna use to get
the current user and
pretty much every single one of these
routes that needs to be protected.
And the way that I did this, I typically
make a utils folder on the root of my app,
and I kind of just scope it based of
the type of work is gonna be done there.
So in this case,
I'm gonna make a users.ts file at the top.
I talked about this earlier, but I'm gonna
import this server only module here.
All this does is, it will throw an error
if the file is ran in the browser.
So if it detects window or any DOM
related stuff, it'll throw an error.
This is actually very important
because you're gonna find out and
I've done this by accident so many times,
it's like you're gonna make a file like
this that has a lot of
utility functions in it.
Some of those functions
operate on the server,
and then some of them
operate on the ground.
You might have two functions in here,
one is using cookies and
another one's using local storage.
Those two functions cannot
exist in the same file,
because one of them uses something
that only works in the browser,
the other one uses something that only
works on the server on a request.
So by putting server only,
not only am I saying, hey,
this can only work on the server,
I'm also saying I have access
to everything in the server and
I shouldn't be putting
browser stuff in here, right?
So let's do that, so
I'm gonna go to utils.
>> Scott Moss: And actually, if you open
this up, there's a few files in here.
You won't touch these, but
I can kinda talk about them.
I talked a little bit
about the auth tools.
This is just some helper functions to
sign us in, sign us up, hash passwords,
things like that.
Constants, I always make a follow on my
app called constants where I just put
constant strings.
This delay function, since now we're
getting into data fetching and things like
that, we're gonna simulate a delay, cuz
otherwise, it'll just come back too fast.
Even tussle being hosted
actually comes back so fast, so
you won't actually get to see anything.
So we're gonna delay
a lot of our requests, so
we can actually see what's gonna happen.
You can get the benefit of that,
so there's a delay function here.
So I'm gonna get new file, call it users.
>> Scott Moss: And then I'm gonna get
my imports, so we got our COOKIE_NAME,
we got our cookies redirect and
our dysfunction called getUserFromToken
from our auth tools,
which sounds exactly like what it says.
It does exactly what it sounds like.
>> Scott Moss: And from here,
we're gonna say export const getUser or
what do I call it, getCurrentUser.
>> Scott Moss: So getCurrentUser, it
doesn't have any arguments because it can
access the cookies because it's running.
We're gonna be using it on React
Server Components, which when you use
the cookie's function inside of a React
Server Component or even in a server
mutation, you have access to the current
request and cookies needs that.
So this will work as long as
we use it inside of a request.
Now if I were to go to use this,
where would this not work?
If I were to just run a script and
just run this, this would not work.
There'd be no concept of cookies.
It's the same thing I
said earlier about tests.
If I were to try to test this, yeah,
it's node and it'll operate but
you probably wouldn't get what you
thought you were gonna get here.
Unless this is mocked out, but you still
wouldn't get the value because there's
no concept of cookies if there's no
request, so something to keep note of.
So we're gonna get our token,
which is gonna be cookies.get COOKIE_NAME.
So once we get that, the next thing we
wanna do is get our user from token.
Well, first what we wanna do is if
we see that you don't have a token,
we'll just redirect you to sign in,
so let's actually do that.
>> Scott Moss: So if no token,
then redirect to sign in, and
you don't have to put a return here.
This is interesting because,
>> Scott Moss: What's
the word I'm looking for?
It returns a type never which is the same
thing as return as in nothing can happen
after this if this is called, so it will
terminate here if this actually happens.
So you don't actually have
to put a return there.
You can if you want but you don't have to.
So we have that, and
then we wanna get the user,
which is await getUserFromToken.
It needs to take in a cookie.
A cookie is actually an object that
has a name and a value on it, so
that's what this is expecting.
And then same thing, if not user,
then go back to sign in,
otherwise, return the user.
So now we can use this on any page
that needs authentication protection.
Later on, we're gonna do a global way
that just locks it down for us for
free, then we'll be just using
this on server mutations.
Whenever someone wants to do
something on the server or
access some data on the server,
we would use this.
But as far as locking down the page,
we'll do that somewhere else globally.